
                                    ENAMDICT

                      Japanese Proper Names Dictionary File

   Copyright  (C)  2002  The  Electronic  Dictionary  Research and Development
   Group, Monash University.

    Introduction

   The ENAMDICT file contains Japanese proper names; place-names, surnames and
   given  names.  These were originally included in the EDICT file, along with
   other  non-name  entries.  By  late  1995,  the  number of name entries had
   exceeded  the  others, and the file was becoming unmanageably large, so the
   decision  was  made to split it. (The split was done automatically, and may
   have been imperfectly performed. Please notify any errors.)

    Format

   The  format of the ENAMDICT file is exactly the same as the EDICT file, and
   the EDICT documention should be consulted for more information.

   Most  software  which  uses  the  EDICT  file  can also handle other files,
   however  there  is  some software, such as MacJDic, which can only handle a
   single  file.  In  such  cases, users can concatenate EDICT and ENAMDICT to
   create a single file.

   Note  that  with  the release of ENAMDICT V97-001, the tagging of names has
   now  changed.  The  old  (sur),  (giv), etc. has been replaced with single-
   letter  codes,  without  the  old  redundancies.  The  codes, as of release
   V2000-01, are:
s - surname
p - place-name
u - person name, as-yet unclassified
g - given name, as-yet not classified by sex
f - female given name
m - male given name
h - a full (family plus given) name of a historical person

   In  addition,  a  number  of  country-names  are added in parentheses after
   place-names.

   Jim Breen
   (jwb@csse.monash.edu.au)
   School of Computer Science and Software Engineering
   Monash University, Clayton 3168, Victoria, Australia
   July 2002

APPENDIX

    ENAMDICT COPYRIGHT STATEMENT

   In  March  2000, James William Breen assigned ownership of the copyright of
   the  dictionary  files  assembled, coordinated and edited by him to the The
   Electronic Dictionary Research and Development Group at Monash University.

   Information  about  the  formal usage arrangement for EDICT can be found on
   the Group's WWW page at: http://www.csse.monash.edu.au/groups/edrdg/

   In  summary,  ENAMDICT  can  be  used,  with  acknowledgement, for any free
   software  or  server,  or  included in file and software distributions at a
   nominal  charge  for  the  distribution  medium. It is also available under
   non-exclusive licence for commercial uses.

   Disclaimer
